Snow falls on the Hakurei Shrine in winter. It had been destroyed by an earthquake before, but now it's back to normal.
One day, something happened to surprise the Hakurei Shrine's shrine maiden, Reimu Hakurei. That was the sudden appearance of a white pillar shooting into the air - a geyser - near the shrine grounds. 
Normally, when something unusual happens, she goes to find out what happened and quickly bring the matter to a close, but this made her happy as much as it surprised her. After all, the geyser would melt the snow and become a hot spring that would ease the fatigue of both humans and youkai from nearby. 
Marisa: " ... isn't it dangerous to get too close to a geyser?" 
Reimu: "It could attract visitors to the shrine, so who cares? If a hot spring comes up then even villagers will come here, mark my words." 
Marisa: "Yeah, for the hot spring." 
However, Reimu's hopeful observations were off the mark.
The geyser spewed forth more than just water for a hot spring. 
One by one a series of grotesque characters appeared. Earth spirits - denizens of the deep underground. 
Disturbed, the two girls wondered what to do about the geyser, so they decided to build a spa. In fact, the earth spirits were quiet and kept to themselves. Most of them were simply ghosts who had finally been relieved of their ties to this world and allowed to pass on. In Gensokyo, where youkai and ghosts ran rampant as a matter of course, the appearance of a few earth spirits didn't seem like such a big deal. 
However, that decision by the shrine maiden bought the youkai's unhappiness.
There was a secret behind the appearance of the earth spirits about which Reimu and Marisa didn't have the slightest inkling of knowledge. 
—— The Scarlet Devil Masion
The magician that lived in the Scarlet Devil Manor, Patchouli Knowledge, sensed danger in the appearance of youkai and earth spirits from underground. In her readings, she'd learned that somewhere slept a power that was uncontrollable by the likes of the youkai from above ground. She also knew that youkai shouldn't easily be able to enter the city that lay in the depths. 
However, there was almost no-one she could consult with regarding this problem. Losing her temper with Reimu and company, she grudgingly decided to consult with the youkai who was said to have been in Gensokyo the longest. 
This old youkai, Yukari Yakumo, wanted the youkai to refrain from interfering in the affairs of the underground world. 
Yukari: "The underground world has different arrangements, so we can't act too overtly." 
Pachouli:　"Well, the humans aren't going to do anything. At this rate we'll lose our initiative; is that what you want?" 
Yukari: "Hm, that's true ... I suppose I have no choice, I can't let you all just do whatever you want again."
Pachouli:　"What do you mean, again ... ? In any case, will you do something? You seem to know something about the underground." 
Yukari: "No, I can't do anything. Only humans can go to the underground. Besides, this might be a trap to draw us in." 
Yukari promised only to send Reimu to investigate, with youkai staying behind to act in a support role. 
-The sealed youkai awoke together with the violent geyser. The memories of the earth began to awaken, and Gensokyo would probably regress into an older period from its history. 
The youkai of the underground were cast into the depths because of their abominable powers. It couldn't be a fortuitous thing for humans or youkai if they were to appear again. 
The snow, slowly shining.
The palace, surrounded by beautiful colors. 
She was there.
Reimu eventually goes underground to stumble upon a tsurube-otoshi who isn't a real threat. After she meet with Yamame Kurodani, a tsuchigumo. She isn't hostile and even invites Reimu to a feast in the underground. Still, Yukari treats her as an enemy resulting in Yamame getting mad. She attacks, but couldn't stand a chance. Reimu is going further, and deeper underground.
Reimu has no idea where she is now, and when a stranger asks her what she wants in the Former Capital Reimu is left behind with questions. The stranger is Parsee Mizuhashi, a bridge princess able to control people's jealousy. Again, Yukari wants Reimu to defeat her but Reimu only wants the hot springs. Being so jealous, Parsee made a reason to attack her. But she failed, and Reimu moves forward.
Upon reaching the Former Capital, an oni shows up and challenges Reimu for a fight. She says Reimu should keep up with her. Reimu wants her to move away already. She stops, and says her name is Yuugi Hoshiguma. Yuugi and Yukari talks together, Yukari blaming her and the other oni not taking care enough of the earth spirits. Reimu interrupts them, and immediately want to go to the so called Palace of the Earth Spirits. But not before Yuugi once again tries to fight with Reimu. Again, Reimu was the stronger one. They proceed.
As they reach the Palace of the Earth Spirits, a cat just wanders by, attacking them. It ran away just as quickly, though. Eventually Reimu meets another youkai, which strangely enough can read her mind. Not so strange though, as she reveals herself as Satori Komeiji, a satori. She is the master of the Palace of the Earth Spirits. Yukari wants Reimu to finish her already, but she just keeps listening and let Satori read her mind. Satori says the geyser was caused by one of her pets. Satori starts fighting eventually, but looses. She will lead Reimu to deeper underground, to the courtyard of the mansion.
Deeper underground, in the hell of blazing fire, the same cat from earlier appears. But this time it turned into Rin Kaenbyou, also known as Orin. She says she listened to Reimu's goal underground, which she better should not do. So they fight, but Reimu is strong enough to beat Orin. Orin gives Reimu a good luck, as the actual culprit, another one of Satori's pet, is even more powerful as that pet had swallowed an actual god. Still, Reimu moves along.
For the last time, Orin tries to stop them in the underground second sun but fails again. So Reimu reaches the other pet. Her name is Utsuho Reiuji, who takes care of the hellfire. She says the geyser can't be stopped due to her ultimate powers. She wants to fight, and after she wins she wants to go to above ground to use her powers. They start fighting, but Reimu ultimately defeats Utsuho. 
The geyser itself didn't stop, but the ghosts and vengeful spirits from the underground had stopped appearing.
The denizens of the underworld seemed surprisingly satisfied with their situation. 
Any ambitions or plots that the above ground youkai had feared had long since vanished, and in general, the only people who tried to come above ground from below were foolish animals.
There was no longer anything to fear from the underground city. Reimu and company were able to go to and fro relatively freely. In return, though, some of the underground youkai also began to appear above ground from time to time. 
Reimu: "Well, I'm not really satisfied that I know what happened." 
Marisa: "The crow was too hot, so the geyser couldn't stop. So the cat sent the evil spirits up here as a sign something was wrong, right?" 
Reimu: "The crow was too hot because she swallowed up some god, right? I know some of the details ... but, didn't someone give her that power to try to fulfill some sort of purpose? I just can't understand what that is." 
Marisa: "Hey, you over there, what do you think?" 
Utsuho: "Unyu?" 
Utsuho and Orin sat in the shrine's tea room, a pair of innocent looks on their faces. The two were quite familiar with the shrine, and were stuffing their faces with eggs boiled in water from the geyser. 
Marisa: "Eat as many of the eggs as you want, there are always more, but why not tell us what happened?"
Utsuho: "Well. I know I've said this before, but I was playing in the former Hell of Blazing Fires, when suddenly a god came down from above ground. It said it was looking for the strongest hell raven in the area, and I said right away that was me. Then it said it would give me power, and I got it." 
Reimu: "But, that's so strange. I just can't understand why a god from above ground would bother doing that. Who would stand to gain anything from making some crow in what used to be hell powerful?" 
Utsuho: "Well, I did! I got power." 
Orin: "The Hell of Blazing Fires didn't even used to be that hot back in the day. It's slowly been getting colder even since the underground was cut off from Hell. It's gotten really dark and lonely ever since Miss Satori sealed it off with the Palace of the Earth Spirits. But, when Okuu turned weird, the fires suddenly roared into life again. So hot, that geyser was uncontrollable."
Reimu: "... I wonder who would benefit from the Hell of Blazing Fire being rekindled? Could you try remembering the god that gave you power again? What did they look like? Did they talk about what they were trying to do?" 
Utsuho: "Uh-uh. I can't remember much more." 
Orin: "You birdbrain. It's no use, even Miss Satori couldn't see anything with her third eye. It's probably fallen out of your heart already." 
Marisa: "Well, she does have a bird's brain." 
Utsuho: "I'm pretty sure they said they came down from a mountain ... both of them." 
Reimu: "Both of them? Hey, that's the first time you've said that, and that's pretty important." 
Orin: "Anyway, let's get in the bath already. 
Marisa: "You're a cat, but you like taking baths?" 
Reimu and Marisa had their suspicions.
It was probably those two gods from on top of the mountain. 
They tried asking the crow more, but she had nothing left to say, so they thought they'd just have to go see for themselves. The top of a mountain is no place to be in winter, but compared to the fires of the underground it wasn't so bad. 
Why did they give the crow that power, and what would happen now? 

Kanako Yasaka and Suwako Moriya.
They are the gods that recently moved their shrine to the top of the Youkai Mountain. 
They are the start of this story. 
The plan by this name has safely concluded its first phase and is on its way towards practical implementation. 
The plan involved using the now-dormant Hell of Blazing Fires as a super-high temperature furnace in an attempt to tame a power that it is said the outside world won't attain for hundreds of years: nuclear fusion energy. 
The first step was to find an exemplary hell raven.
Then, to bestow upon it the personification of the sun, Yatagarasu.
Then, to rekindle the flames of the Hell of Blazing Fires.
Then, to tame the crow. 
The geyser was proof of the plan's success. 
Unlike fission energy, fusion reactions are less likely to go out of control. In addition, it doesn't create such lethal waste. So, because it is very safe and produces massive amounts of energy, it is an almost dream-like energy production method. 
Kanako seems to treat this as just one part of the shrine's operations. 
Because they didn't feel the plan was dangerous, the above-ground youkai did nothing to stop it even once they found out the truth. 
However, Reimu, who was made to go underground,
confronted them and said angrily,
Reimu: "Next time, tell everyone about it before you start!" 


One early morning, a large human-shaped object appeared in the mountains, spewing steam, before disappearing into the mountain fog. Sanae Kochiya, Cirno, and Hong Meiling all saw the mysterious thing. Sanae thought it might be a giant robot; Cirno was convinced it was a daidarabotchi; Meiling believed it was the Taisui Xingjun. Each of them set out to confront the mysterious thing. 
Cirno wonders if the giant thing is the legendary giant youkai, daidarabotchi. While Cirno is talking to herself, Sanae Kochiya lands before her, just as the giant thing disappears. Sanae was also wondering about it, believing it to be a robot. She asks Cirno about it. Cirno accidentally mentions the daidarabotchi, but tries to deny having seen anything. Her response makes Sanae suspicious. Sanae defeats Cirno in a match and asks for directions to the giant thing. Cirno states she saw it near the Scarlet Devil Mansion.
At the Scarlet Devil Mansion, Hong Meiling is talking to herself about the giant thing, thinking it was Taisui Xingjun. Sanae drops by, surprising Meiling. Sanae asks for directions to the giant thing. Meiling says that it headed towards the mountain. Sanae then wonders if she passed it at some point. Sanae tries to leave but Meiling stops her because this is the estate grounds of the devil where people are not allowed to come and go as they please. After their match, a lukewarm mist appears at the Scarlet Devil Mansion and Sanae spots the giant robot at the base of the mountain.
The reappearing human-like giant seems to be rampaging near the Geyser Underground Center at the base of the mountain. Just as she thought that both it and the mist disappear again. Sanae thought that the grounds under the geyser were strange, so she descended underground to where the sun resides. Sanae knows that the Geyser Underground Center was created for Kanako Yasaka's plans. It is also the site for the mountain’s technological breakthroughs. Connecting the dots, Sanae concluded that this must be the giant robot's docking bay.
Reimu Hakurei somehow falls inside the Geyser Underground Center. It is implied that Sanae had forgotten to close the cover hatch, leaving the ground above unsupported. When Reimu was walking by, the ground suddenly crumbled, causing her to fall. After recovering from her fall, Reimu asks Sanae where are they. Sanae explains this is the Geyser Underground Center used for researching nuclear fusion. Reimu suspects she is up to no good again and then they get into a fight. Sanae reaffirms that she isn't involved in anything bad. Sanae further explains that the Geyser Underground Center is where the kappa come to research and build. Still feeling the pain from her fall, Reimu decides to believe Sanae, but she warns her that if anything weird happens then it is her fault.
Sanae arrives at the nuclear reactor core, commenting on its extreme heat and how staying too long could be dangerous. The reactor operations had to be halted because Sanae's presence was contaminating the nuclear reactor core. Utsuho Reiuji was sent in to eradicate the "foreign substance" immediately and attacks Sanae. After a spell card, Sanae tells Utsuho that she's a shrine maiden of Kanako but Utsuho doesn't remember who Kanako is. Sanae then tries to explain that she's a servant of higher power than Utsuho herself. Utsuho is confused and explains the reason she came to the nuclear reactor core is because of the notification that a foreign substance had contaminated the reactor core. They continue their fight. Eventually, Utsuho forgets what they were doing. Sanae takes advantage of this to tell Utsuho that she was listening to her orders and helping her with the investigation of the reactor. Utsuho asks what she should be doing then Sanae asks her whether or not a gigantic thing has been hiding there. Utsuho asks what it is. Sanae answers that it's humanoid and about 100 meters. Utsuho states she has not seen such a thing.
Sanae was thinking to herself in the nuclear reactor when Suwako Moriya jumps down inside and accidentally lands on Sanae. Sanae explains that she arrived here in pursuit of a giant shadow which she believes to be a giant robot in Gensokyo. Suwako states she came here to restart Hisoutensoku. She makes the connection that the giant robot Sanae saw is probably Hisoutensoku. Sanae learns that Suwako had Hisoutensoku built without Kanako’s knowledge and points out that Suwako has been doing a lot of weird things without telling anyone. She reminds Suwako about how keeping the nuclear fusion reactor a secret in the past made everyone angry. She then decides Suwako has gone too far with selfish deeds and challenges her to a battle. Suwako obliges, and the two engage in a fierce battle. 
Cirno speculates she has seen a daidarabotchi. She gets ready to leave when Sanae Kochiya asks her if she has seen a giant human-shaped object. Cirno denies seeing a daidarabotchi, which causes Sanae to be suspicious and fight Cirno. Later, Cirno passes by the Scarlet Devil Mansion when she overhears Hong Meiling mumbling about the Taisui Xingjun. Cirno becomes interested in finding the Taisui Xingjun, but focuses back on the daidarabotchi after beating Meiling.
At the entrance of the Underground Geyser Center, Cirno meets Marisa Kirisame who tells her that the daidarabotchi is inside the Underground Geyser Center, but that was a complete lie. Once inside after beating Marisa, Cirno is intercepted by Utsuho Reiuji. Utsuho attempts to eradicate the foreign substance, but Cirno manages to escape being incinerated to death. After escaping, Cirno runs into Marisa, who tells her about a giant youkai in the Forest of Magic.
Once Cirno gets to the forest, she runs into Alice Margatroid. When Cirno tells her about a daidarabotchi, Alice realizes that Cirno is talking about her Goliath Doll, and lets Cirno fight with it. 
Hong Meiling rushes into the library of the Scarlet Devil Mansion to talk to Patchouli Knowledge about seeing Taisui Xingjun and advises Patchouli to prepare for an earthquake. Patchouli however tells Meiling to go back to her post and not interrupt Patchouli's research. After a short battle with Patchouli, Meiling then decides to defend the Scarlet Devil Mansion from the Taisui Xingjun and his minions on her own.
Later, Alice Margatroid appears and asks Meiling to escort her to the library. However, Meiling claims that she is actually a fake sent by the Taisui Xingjun, and "Alice" is impressed that Meiling saw through her ruse. Meiling then defeats "Alice" and prepares for the next invader. Afterwards, Marisa Kirisame comes by hoping to visit the library again. Marisa tries to get past Meiling, but Meiling ousts her as a fake and defeats her. Reimu Hakurei then arrives at the Scarlet Devil Mansion to exterminate youkai. Meiling recognizes Reimu as yet another agent of Taisui Xingjun and proceeds to defeat the "Reimu".
After she is defeated, "Reimu" decides to show Meiling her true form, a Giant Catfish. The catfish tells Meiling it has finally been revived, and reveals it sent assassins to weaken Meiling before its revival. Meiling decides to fight the catfish. After a harsh battle, it was defeated. 
After her fight with the Giant Catfish, Meiling goes on to fight the Taisui Xingjun. However, it's revealed that Hong Meiling's scenario after her fight against Patchouli Knowledge was all a dream. She passed out at the gates of the Scarlet Devil Mansion where Sakuya Izayoi found her and put her in the library, with Sakuya trying to help her and Patchouli disagreeing because she's a youkai who'll heal anyway. Hearing Meiling's sleep talk, they talk about the action manga they found outside the gate, and how Meiling's dreaming about it. The topic then goes on to Hisoutensoku and how Sakuya was interested in seeing it. Patchouli agrees but also noting something important to drop off (what that "something" was is never revealed). Meiling ends up waking up embarrassed over how she wound up reading a manga instead of guarding the mansion, but she was concerned about Taisui as she wasn't able to beat it in her dream and didn't know what it looked like. It goes on to the question if all the youkai were able to defeat such a being, with Meiling vowing to be on the front lines. 
Reimu Hakurei and Marisa Kirisame are at the Hakurei Shrine talking about the kappa's festival mentioned in the newspaper as they notice the bit about Hisoutensoku which catches their interest. The scene then switches to the Moriya Shrine where Sanae Kochiya, Suwako Moriya and Kanako Yasaka talk about what makes the robot work and worry of an 'artificial god'. The conversation goes on to some miscellaneous projects such as giant robots in general. Hisoutensoku was a successful robot attraction and even Marisa and Reimu enjoyed it.
Cirno's telling Reimu about the giant youkai, which was the Goliath Doll, she fought and Reimu brings up Hisoutensoku, which Cirno disproves, adding since it's so common it's boring. She goes on to tell her tale but ends up forgetting the exact details of her encounter with Alice Margatroid and the doll, instead just saying she encountered a youkai in the Forest of Magic. This imperfect recollection ended up being mutated into a ghost story called the "Legend of the Giant Midsummer Youkai." Alice hears this tale later and she doesn't recognize her part in it, so she decides to focus on making her doll stronger, enlarging magic in it as to one day it'll fight the youkai that doesn't exist. 
